=head1 NAME

mathtomath-generic-options - mathtomath output options for LaTeX

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Output options change the way expressions in the corresponding format
are printed. The default option values are read from
.mathtomath/I<Format>/options in your home directory. The defaults can
be overridden by using mathtomath's B<-o> command line switch. The
syntax for assigning a value to an option is C<option name = value>. Multiple assignments can be separated by semicolons.

=over 2

=item B<symbols_as_text>

If set to non-zero, all variable names containing more than one
character are converted to C<\text{>I<name>C<}>.

By default this option is turned off.

=item B<list_format>

Determines the output format for lists. Supported formats are 
C<tabular, array> and the various matrix environments defined by the amsmath 
LaTeX package. 

The default is zero, which means that lists have the form
C<\{...\}>.

=item B<bracket_scaling>

Changes how brackets are scaled. If this option is set to a zero value 
brackets are left as they are. C<auto> means that brackets are preceded by 
C<\left> and C<\right>. C<incremental> is most useful for nested brackets: the 
innermost bracket pair is in general left unchanged, whereas the following
levels are enlarged with C<\big> and the like. Up to five levels are supported.
Brackets around ratio will always be at least C<\bigg>.

The default value for this option is C<incremental>.

=item B<line_length>

The minimal number of characters in a line. When a line is long enough a
line break will be inserted directly before the next match of the
regular expression given by B<line_break_at>. If ratios appear in the
line, only the number of characters in either the numerator or the
denominator is counted, depending on which is longer. For matrices or
tables only the longest row counts. Subscript or superscript characters
are usually not counted as whole characters (see B<subscript_size>).

A zero value means that no line breaks will be inserted. The default value is 
40.

=item B<line_break_at>

The value should be a regular expression stating before which characters line
breaks may be inserted as soon as the number of characters given by the 
B<line_length> option is exceeded. 

The default value is C<qr/[\+\-]/>, which means
that line breaks may be inserted before plus and minus signs.

=item B<line_break>

Defines how a line break looks like.

By default a line break is two backslashes followed by a newline and the 
alignment character C<&>.

=item B<subscript_size>

How much subscript/superscript characters count. A value of 0.5
e.g. means that two subscript characters count as much as one "usual"
character towards the target B<line_length>.

=item B<break_ratio>

Unbalanced ratios X/Y will be rewritten to 1/Y*(X) if two conditions are
fulfilled. First, X has to contain at least one plus or minus
sign. Second, X has to be longer than Y by at least a factor given by
the value of B<break_ratio>. If the value is zero, nothing will be done.

The default is to break up ratios where the numerator is longer by at 
least a factor of 5.

=back

=head1 FILES

B<.mathtomath/Latex/options> - file containing default option values

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<mathtomath>

=cut


